Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we are going to take a look at another way of writing conditionals in JavaScript.
All right, so we have talked about the statements now what I want to talk about is the switch statement,
which kind of does the same thing as if statements.
So the first scenario that we are going to cover is checking.
Checking for a single condition, right, so first off, we are going to check for a single condition.
Now, let's go ahead and let's talk about the swift statements and swift statements.
They are different in their syntax from if statements whenever you want to create a switch statement
conditional.
First off, you have to specify your variable.
So we are going to go ahead and we are going to Grabowsky, for example, and we are going to set it
to 10.
All right, and then the syntax for switch statement is, first off, we the switch key word and then
open parentheses and then open curly braces.
So if and here comes the variable name.
Right.
The score, but this is not our condition, our condition is going to be inside, our condition is going
to be inside our curly braces.
All right.
So this is how different they are.
So this is our variable.
What do we want to do with this variable?
So we want to what do we want to do?
We want to provide it with a condition.
So if the condition in the condition that the score is equal to 10, we want to it to the console.
What grade A..
All right.
I'm going to go over this syntax one more time.
So we say that the initial value of this core variable is going to be the number 10.
And in the switch statement, we grab that score and we say in case in case the score is ten, we want
to print to the console.
Great.
And keep in mind that this is cool.
All right.
This is not semicolon.
This is just simple.
I'm going to zoom in for you so you guys can see this is Colon.
All right.
This is semicolon, but this is colon.
And when you provide colon and JavaScript and when you hit, I'm just going to go ahead and cut this
one and I'm going to show you how this works.
So when you write Colon and when you hit enter or or the return, whatever you want to call it, when
you enter, you can see that it has been indented by two tabs.
All right.
And then this code is going to run.
So think of this.
Think of this part as your condition and this part as the code that you want to run in case your condition
has been met.
Right.
So this is how this is going to work.
We are just going to go ahead and zoom out of it.
All right.
So we are going to save it now because the score is 10.
We are going to see great a what if we change it to 11?
We are not going to see anything because we don't have any other scenario that we want to run here.
We do have any other scenarios for switch statements as well.
So this is a switch statement checking for a single condition.
We also have a default statement in which we can check for two conditions, default statement.
And we are going to say checking for two conditions.
All right, so first off, let's go ahead and let's create our variable, which is score, and we are
going to put it to ten.
All right.
And then in the switch, what do we want to do?
We want to include that variable because we want to apply some conditions on that variable.
So in case the variable has a value of 10, we want to present to the console great a right.
We want to present to the concert grade eight.
What if the what if the score is not 10?
So what if in that case, what happens in that case?
So in that case, whenever I hit enter here, you guys can see that it is still indented.
So what we are going to do is we are going to hit backspace once and we are going to provide a default
statement.
And think of this default statement as the statement that we had in our in our previous lecture for
conditionals.
So in the default statement, what I want to do is I want to provide just great.
So let's go ahead and let's save it.
Now, you guys can see we print out grade eight and grade B now here is here is the important part about
the switch statements that whenever you provide a condition, you have to break out of that condition.
So the break key has to be written here.
And it is so simple.
You just write break.
So now when this condition is met, we do not want the other code to run.
That's why we just break out of this and that's it.
But if you do not provide with this key word, this condition is going to begin to run and this one
is going to run as well.
So now the score is 10.
We see grade A, let's put it to score nine and we should see grade, which we can write.
So this is this is the default statement checking for two conditions.
And now things are going to get interesting because now we are going to take a look at this, which.
Switch default.
All right, switch the false statements in which we can go ahead and we can check for multiple for multiple
conditions, statement checking for more than two conditions, right.
So first off, let's go ahead and let's create our variable and let's put it to eight initially, OK?
And we are going to write the syntax for a swift statement, and we are going to reference that variable
here.
Right.
And OK, now let's go ahead and let's write our conditions.
So in case the variable has a value of 10, what do we want to do?
We want to run.
We want to print to the council grade, not grade B, we are going to print to the council grade eight.
And when that code runs, we want to break out of it.
So we do not want the remaining code to run as well.
All right.
So in case the score has a value of ten and sorry, the value of nine, what do we want to do?
We want to run this code.
We want to say that grade is B, OK?
And now we we have to break out of it as well.
So what if this this score has a value of eight?
So when the score has a value of eight, we want to print to the council grade C.
Right.
And we are going to break out of it as well.
And when the score has a value of seven, we want to print to the console Grady's.
Right, and we are going to break out of it as well, and in any other scenario, this is our default
key, this is our default key word.
And in any other scenario, we just want to print to the console great f but save it.
So because the grade is eight, whereas the grade eight.
So when the grade is eight, we are going to print to the console.
Great story.
When the score is eight, we are going to print to the console.
Great.
See when the score is seven, we are going to print grade.
When the score is five, we are going to print grade F.
When the score is ten, we are going to create a.
So whenever you create some sort of logic inside your in your JavaScript, make sure to check it for
every condition.
OK, make sure to give it a value of nine which is great B value of ten which is great.
And to make sure that it works the way you want it to work, it works expectedly, not surprisingly.
All right.
You don't want surprises when you are creating logic, right.
That's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.